[RUM-3190] Add documentation for Unity private beta (#21781)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/setup/unity.md

---
title: RUM Unity Monitoring Setup
kind: documentation
is_beta: true
private: true
disable_toc: false
description: Collect RUM data from your Unity Mobile projects.
aliases:
    - /real_user_monitoring/unity/
    - /real_user_monitoring/unity/setup
code_lang: unity
type: multi-code-lang
code_lang_weight: 30
further_reading:
- link: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-unity
  tag: GitHub
  text: Source code for dd-sdk-unity
- link: https://github.com/DataDog/unity-package
  tag: GitHub
  text: Package URL for Unity SDK
- link: real_user_monitoring/explorer/
  tag: Documentation
  text: Learn how to explore your RUM data
- link: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-flutter-application-performance-with-mobile-rum/
  tag: Blog
  text: Monitor Flutter application performance with Datadog Mobile RUM

---
## Overview

{{< beta-callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" >}}

> Unity Monitoring is currently in private beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unity Monitoring is in private beta.
```

{{< /beta-callout >}}

Datadog Real User Monitoring (RUM) enables you to visualize and analyze user journeys of your application's individual users.

## Setup

<div class="alert alert-info">

> Datadog supports Unity Monitoring for iOS and Android for Unity LTS 2022+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog supports Unity Monitoring for iOS and Android for Unity LTS 2022+.
```

</div>

> Datadog does not currently support Desktop (Windows, Mac, or Linux), console or Web deployments from Unity, but Datadog's priorities are often re-evaluated based on your feedback. If you have a game or application and would want to use Datadog RUM to monitor its performance, reach out to your customer support team and escalate this feature request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog does not support Desktop (Windows, Mac, or Linux), console, or web deployments from Unity. If you have a game or application and want to use Datadog RUM to monitor its performance, create a ticket with [Datadog support](/help/).
```

Reviewer: Is there any specific information the customer could provide that would be helpful to start? Here's an example: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/guide/requests/#submit-a-request

Author: The only think I can think of would be what platform they want us to support.

2. Choose `Unity` as the application type.
3. Provide an application name to generate a unique Datadog application ID and client token.
4. To disable automatic user data collection for either client IP or geolocation data, uncheck the boxes for those settings.

To ensure the safety of your data, you must use a client token. For more information about setting up a client token, see the [Client Token documentation][2].

### Installing

1. Install [External Dependency Manager for Unity (EDM4U)][3]. This can be done using [Open UPM][4].

2. Add the Datadog SDK Unity package from its Git URL at [https://github.com/DataDog/unity-package][5].

3. Configure your project to use [Gradle templates][6], and enable both `Custom Main Template` and `Custom Gradle Properties Template`.

4. If you build and recieve `Duplicate class` errors (common in Unity 2022.x) add the following block in the `dependencies` block in your `mainTemplate.gradle`:

   ```groovy
   constraints {
        implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-stdlib-jdk8:1.8.0") {
            because("kotlin-stdlib-jdk8 is now a part of kotlin-stdlib")
        }
   }
   ```

> 5. After adding the Datadog Unity SDK, configure Datadog from your Project Settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After adding the Datadog Unity SDK, configure Datadog from your Project Settings:

```

>     a. Enable Datadog and RUM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Enable Datadog and RUM
```

    b. Copy your `Client Token` and `Application Id` into the fields in the settings window.

>     c. Verify that your `Site` is correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Verify that your `Site` is correct.
```

## Using Datadog

> ### Setting Tracking Consent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting tracking consent
```

Datadog maps the Unity levels to the following in Datadog's Logging Levels:

| Unity LogType  | Datadog Log Level |
| -------------- | ----------------- |
| Log            |  Info             |
| Error          |  Error            |
| Assert         |  Critical         |
| Warning        |  Warn             |
| Exception      |  Critical         |

You can access this default logger to add attributes or tags through the `DatadogSdk.DefaultLogger` property.

You can also create additional loggers for more fine grained control of thresholds, service names, logger names, or to supply additional attributes.

```cs
var logger = DatadogSdk.Instance.CreateLogger(new DatadogLoggingOptions()
{
    SendNetworkInfo = true,
    DatadogReportingThreshold = DdLogLevel.Debug,
});
logger.Info("Hello from Unity!");

logger.Debug("Hello with attributes", new()
{
    { "my_attribute", 122 },
    { "second_attribute", "with_value" },
    { "bool_attribute", true },
    {
        "nested_attribute", new Dictionary<string, object>()
        {
            { "internal_attribute", 1.234 },
        }
    },
});
```

### Real User Monitoring (RUM)

#### Manual Scene (View) Tracking

> To manually track new Scenes (`Views` id Datadog), use the `StartVeiw` and `StopView` methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manually track new Scenes (`Views` in Datadog), use the `StartView` and `StopView` methods:
```
